Austin, picking up where we left off in the
interview with Davis Ford. And let's start by your
describing. One this morning, you don't have to
hear this one, you'll get it when they record it.
From Holtz, is that his name? Yeah. Yeah. He's
going to record it. I gave her the ring and she gave
me the finger. Yeah. Of course, circa 55 to 59 was my
era there, and I was from West Texas, so I obviously
couldn't go back to Lubbock very frequently, so my
roommates and my Aggie colleagues and I would come
primarily to Austin, Dallas, and Houston to have
our social life. Of those three, I must admit that
Austin was our favorite. It seems like that the
University of Texas coeds kind of got tired of the
attorney boys, and the Aggies were kind of a breath
of fresh air, so my roommate and dear friends at
that time, and I had girlfriends in Austin, so we
would make the trek here, this was my junior and
senior year when we had more freedom, make the trek
on a regular basis. Virtually every weekend we
were in Austin. And what, Carlota? No, just two of
us on that particular occasion, because we had
girlfriends who also were friends with each
other, so it was just a real night. It made, after
two years of kind of social isolation, we all of a
sudden really started enjoying the fruition of
social life in college our junior and senior year.
Right, but now back in Brown College Station, if
you and Some of your friends want to just go off
campus and have a good time. Where'd y'all go?
Well, uh, the clay pits, obviously. It's a
swimming hole. And what'd y'all do at the clay
pits? Well, we just used to go out there, and, uh, of
course, I was, uh, a little serious, too, because I
didn't drink much beer, but my colleagues would go
out there and drink beer and jump in the water. Uh,
sometimes with girlfriends, sometimes not. That
was, that was my version. Uh, Brian and Charlie's
station were going to stay out at that time. Uh, and
this really wasn't too much to do. I'd go down to
Brian's and say, put this out right now. He came in,
let it go just a little. This is a second start on the
18th of September. Austin with Davis Ford.
Disregard everything on this tape prior to this
point because it will sound amusing.
We began this morning, and I was asking you to
describe the community of College Station when
you were a student and what you and your fellow
Aggies in the 50s What did you all do for fun? Where
did you go? Not too much to do in College Station or
Bryan. As I mentioned previously, the clay pits
were kind of the place to hang out. Just old sand
borough area and had some water in it. So we'd go out
there and swim and drink a little beer. And that was
one place. Other than that, it was pretty mundane.
There were no particular places that we enjoyed
going there that I can recall an immediate area.
Now you mentioned earlier about coming to Austin,
you and some other friends.
Was that typical? Were there a number of students
who went? I think that the points of light around
where we'd spend our weekends would be Austin,
Dallas, Houston, those three places, at least the
crowds that I ran in. And I think of those three, my
favorite was certainly Austin. My roommate and I,
my junior and senior year, were dating University
of Texas girls, and Austin was a fun place to come,
and that was our favorite habitat. Now, other of my
colleagues, we might go to Dallas or Houston or
maybe Denton, but my favorite place, including a
lot of my good friends, was to come down here to
Austin. On Austin, on a weekend, if you and a date
went out, Did anybody tease an Aggie or make fun of
an Aggie here in Austin? Oh yeah, sure. Was it good
nature? Oh, it was good nature. I had some good
personal friends who were at UT and we ragged each
other pretty hard, but it was, they were mostly
fraternity guys, but now when I was a freshman we
were kind of looked down upon because we were young
looking and had shaved heads, but when we got to
become junior and seniors we were obviously more
sophisticated in the world and I think innately we
considered ourselves to be a little superior to
the fraternity boys, but it was all good fun. When
you came over here, did you wear uniforms? No, no. I
assumed that you didn't wear a uniform. As I
recall, Haskell, the regs at that time and the
corps, you could take a uniform off once you were 15
miles outside of town or something like that,
outside of Bryant College Station, off the
campus. So we'd leave in our uniforms and then
immediately change to civilian clothes once we
got to that limit. Now, was it common to have a car
then? Very uncommon. I didn't have a car in my
senior year. So you doubled up with somebody who
had a car, or you hitchhiked? That's right. Now, my
freshman and sophomore year, I'd come to Austin
quite a bit, and I'd put my uniform on because it was
so easy to get a ride. So I would hitchhike a lot my
freshman year. Not so much my sophomore and junior
years. I always had a friend who had a car, and then I
had a car my senior year. If you were going to
hitchhike from the campus to Austin, where did you
go to start that? Right across the railroad by the
vet school, where we normally start. And was it
common to get a ride all the way? Oh, yeah. It was
easy. It was real easy. Did you hold up a sign or
anything? No. Or just your thumb? Just your thumb.
Sometimes you might go to Bastrop and change cars
and get on into Austin. It was never a problem back
in 55, 56. Did you or anybody else you know of ever
have an unfortunate incident hitchhiking? Very
unusual. Back in those days, it was a safe thing to
do. Now, the hitchhiker probably has as much to
fear as the one who picks up the hitchhiker. But I
don't recall of any incident. It was so common, it
was just... It was a nice way to do it. All right,
now, so when you're leaving Austin to go back to
College Station, where did you catch the ride? Out
on 290, right outside of Austin. My grandparents
lived here, and they'd take me out to 290, and I'd be
out there. No time at all, you'd get a ride. Let's
see, was there bus service in Bryan College
Station then? You know, even then, from Austin, it
was very, you had to go to Waco and change or
something. There was not a way to go. But then in
town, was there a municipal bus? Could you ride
that? Oh, sure. And where did you catch that bus?
Well, they had a center location in town that kind
of had a radial effect in all parts of Austin. No,
no, no, in Bryan College Station. Oh, in Bryan
College Station? Was there a municipal bus then?
Oh, no, no, none. I'm sorry, we're just talking
about Austin. None whatsoever that I recall in
Bryan College Station. Let's see, and let's
recapture your thoughts about Lupo and Pinky as
people and what their role was in the life of the
campus. You were asking me about the real visible
characters that we had on campus back in those
days, and I recited that my freshman year, Bear
Bryant was a coach in 1955 that I remember pinky
downs leading the yells at the Grove. I believe
that he passed away shortly thereafter, probably
during my tenure at A&M. I don't remember the exact
date, but he was certainly a legend. And the second
was Lupo. We're getting ready to talk about Lupo
and other characters. He, I remember... When I
first came on the campus in 1955, Lupo had a very
prominent place there right next to the campus.
And he was advertised 50% off. And of course, we
never believed any of that. But I think Lupo was one
of the few marketing people I've ever seen,
retailers, that actually gave you 50% off,
because we'd compare prices. And he always seemed
to be the lowest. But he was very philanthropic. He
helped out freshmen. He was just a great man. And I
tracked him all the way through past graduation. I
think he finally passed away just, what, five or
ten years ago. So he was quite an institution. He
was a very unselfish person. And he was good
friends with Tiger Teague and Earl Rudder, so that
kind of helped him. Pinky? No, Lupo. No, no, no.
Describe Pinky. Oh, Pinky? What you saw of him.
Well, he's a little bitty guy, and his suits always
seemed too big for him. I don't really know much
about his history. I'd read about him in a book that
was written on Texas A&M, I believe back in 1950 or
51. But where did you see him and how did you
encounter him? Yeah, well he'd be around the
campus, but also I'd see him at Yale practice back
in 55, 56. And Bear Bryant, describe him during
your years. You know, Bear Bryant is kind of
interesting. I went to school with, and still good
friends with him, Charlie Milstead, Told me a lot
of Bear Bryant stories. Also, my wife was from
Bryant and used to date some of the Bear Bryant
football players. So I got a lot of stories about
him. I'd see him from time to time around the MSC. At
that time, we thought he was old, mean-looking,
but at that time he was in his 40s. Sometimes you
realize or forget how young he was when he was
coaching in him. But the players were absolutely
in awe of him. He had a certain personality that
would evidently intimidate people who played for
him. Milstead used to tell me that he'd be walking
along the campus and see Barry Bryant walking on
the sidewalk and he'd go around make a detour two or
three blocks just from saying just to keep him
saying hello to him. He had that kind of
personality.
Let's see were there any world events or national
events that occurred while you were an
undergraduate that had an effect upon what you
thought your life was going to be? Very few. I was
active in SCONA, Student Council on National
Affairs, or Student Conference on National
Affairs, which I believe was started by an Aggie
back about 1955 or 56, and I was active in that. I
remember John Hagler was active in it and a lot of my
colleagues. I would go pick up delegates at the
train station in North Zulch. Trains quit coming
to College Station, and so... The highlight I
remember in terms of a national figure was Hubert
Humphrey spoke there one time. I don't recall
anybody else of national or international note
during my four years at A&M. It's kind of an
anecdote. I remember going down to the Bush
Library opening just a few months ago. I guess
what, 1998. And seeing all these world figures
like Valesa, John Major, on and on and on all the
living presidents except president reagan all
the living first ladies and i told some of the cadet
seniors how fortunate they were to be at a m such a
monumental event regardless of your politics a
presidential library is really something big
we'll all remember that day but i was just kind of
jokingly told one of the cadet seniors who i think a
ross volunteer who was right in the middle of all
this i said i hope you appreciate the national and
international figures you have when you're on the
campus. When I was at A&M, all we had was one drunk
ex-county commissioner, and that was a highlight
of my career. We all kind of laughed at that, but it
was a cataclysmic event. And presidential
libraries, of course, living here in Austin and
being active with the LBJ Library here and now the
Bush Library, it just attracts scholars and
historians, and it's a wonderful advantage for
any university to have that affiliation with a
presidential library. It's beyond description.
Court trips. Where did y'all go on court trips and
describe what they were like for a student? Court
trips were strictly limited to three cities in my
tenure there. Fort Worth, Dallas, and, I'm sorry,
four. Fort Worth, Dallas, Houston, and Austin.
And we would alternate. So it would be Fort Worth,
I'd be at Fort Worth and Austin one year and then
Dallas and Houston the next year and then rotate
back. They were great events. We always had
Friends who lived in one of those four towns would
stay with them. And depending on what class you
were, it depends how far you had to shine your shoes
and all that. But they were highlights. They were
really great times. Normally you'd leave College
Station when? Friday. Come back Sunday. Friday
afternoon? Friday afternoon. Go do whatever
partying we were going to do that night in
respective towns. Do our thing. Go see the
football game. Come back Sunday. Somewhat
bedraggled. And then have to start studying again
Sunday night. Now, let's see, in Austin it was
Congress Avenue. Congress Avenue. Houston.
Houston, it was downtown Houston. I don't
remember if it was Travis. It wasn't Main Street?
Maybe it was Main or Travis, one of those two. Fort
Worth, I don't remember. I think it was Main Street
and Fort Worth. And Dallas, Elmer, Maine. And
Dallas was Elmer, Maine. Right. Do you remember
any particular event of any court trip that was
special to you, plus good or bad? Saw a lot of good
football players. I remember Don Meredith was
playing for SMU at the time.
Texas was starting to rebuild. Rice was always a
good team. I know they upset us. My senior year, the
court trip, upset us. We were number one in the
nation at the time, I believe. My junior years
when, I guess, no, I'm sorry, my freshman year at
Rice was when we came back and made a 21-point
advantage in the last eight or nine minutes and won
the game. But SMU, TCU, Rice were all powers at that
time. So it was a big game. Probably drew as many
people then or more than we do today. Now,
normally, did you all have dates? On court trip
weekends? Depends what your classification was.
As a freshman, it was not a freshman privilege to
have a date, being facetious. Very few of us had
dates because women just didn't want to go with
skinhead people. But that changed our sophomore,
junior, and senior years. We always had dates. Now
were the Friday and Saturday night activities,
were they of a positive nature? By and large. The
parties and things like that? Yeah. There was
excesses, but not to the point that you'd really
get in trouble. All right, now let's go to a home
football weekend. Make believe that I know
nothing about what that was like. Describe for me
what went on on campus the whole weekend of a home
game. The routine was fixed. The times and the
dates and the fringe had changed. But the routine
was fixed. And that is, Friday night, you would
have a midnight yoke practice. Saturday, you'd
spend your time getting ready for the march in, and
then the march in, and then the game. And then
Saturday night, you'd have individual parties.
Sometimes you would have a senior ring dance or a
sophomore ball or a freshman ball coincident with
a home football game. But the routine was pretty
well fixed, but it was always a lot of fun. Now,
where was Yale practices held in those days? Yale
practices were normally at the Grove. At the
Grove. Yeah, it was not at the football stadium.
And was everything on the ground? Did anybody get
up in any kind of bleacher or riser or anything? No,
the coach. Normally the football players would
not. talk it was the head Yale leader and the coach.
That'd be about the only people that would see it at
the Yale practice but it was integral. Right and
what all what all happened? Well it was just the
Yale leaders kind of took control of it and the
coach would come up depending who it was. Bear
Bryant was always pretty good at that at that deal.
I think Jim Myers was there. My last two years, he
was pretty effective. He was more effective at
Yale practice than he was the next day. It was
pretty good, too. Go through all the Yales in
spirit. Final review. Talk about final review for
you. Final review, it's kind of interesting
because it was a very big transition. My final
review was rained out. I'll never forget that. So
after graduation, it was pouring down rain, so I
didn't get to go through with my new lieutenant
bars and final review, but certainly the other
three years we did. All right. So in your case,
where were those bars pinned on? On the collar. No,
no, no, no. Who pinned them on? Yeah. It depends.
You know, it depends. In my case, it depends on the
individual. It could have been your mother or your
girlfriend or your ex-wife or ex-girlfriend. But
in my case, it was my future wife at Pindamon, who I
was dating at the time. And so where did that
happen? In this case, it was normally on the drill
field. But in this case, it was in G. Raleigh White.
Right after commencement? After commencement
and after the commissioning ceremony. And
commencement was held when? Well, there was a
commissioning ceremony, which I believe was
after commencement at that time. It was held in G.
Raleigh, and at that time we had about 7,000
students on the campus, so we had easy
accommodations for that. I think there was just
one graduation. I think that's correct. Describe
commencement then. You know, I don't remember
commencement too much about it. It's kind of
Interesting, I heard a politician one time, when I
was in the Association of Former Students, give a
commencement address, and he said, he was talking
to all the parents, he said, you probably don't
remember any commencement address you've ever
heard, and this will be consistent with that. For
some reason, you just don't remember
commencement addresses.
The only one I guess I remember was one of my nephews
graduating from Dartmouth. And the commencement
address, was very good, and I guess I was more
receptive as an adult than I was as a graduating
senior. Did you have family there who all was at
commencement? Family was always at
commencement, all my family and my grandfather
and grandmother.
Silver Taps. Make believe that I'm not an Aggie.
Tell me what Saps is and what it meant to you.
Fortunately, we didn't have too many of them when I
was in school. That's when the Ross Volunteers
It gives a salute to those who have been, who have
deceased. Normally happened at night. It was on
the campus. I was a member of the firing squad in
Ross Volunteers my junior year. So I participated
just as a member of the Ross Volunteers. Tell me
what that. Ross Volunteers is a. No, no, the firing
squad. Tell me what that meant. Well, it was kind of
a salute, a military salute. Taps was played. And
you would have three platoons of the Ross
Volunteers, and we would fire those fire blanks,
and it would be three volleys. I think it was, as I
recall, it was three volleys of seven rifles each,
so it would be 21 shots fired. And you all would
gather where? Out in front of the old main. But did
y'all march over there? We would march over there
as Ross Volunteers. Now, the student body would
just walk over there. Yeah, yeah. But y'all
marched. We would march. We would form up in front
of one of the arms and march over there. Three
platoons of seven each. In our Ross Volunteers. In
your RVs. And did y'all take that, was that a
serious event? Very serious. When the civil taps
was over, what happened? You just quietly go back
to your rooms. It was very quiet. Everything just,
it was quiet and you just go back to your rooms. Do
you remember ever anybody trying to act silly
after a... No, no. And what if I had, what if you or
somebody else had a real big test the next day and
you really had to study some more that night? Did
anybody ever do that? Yeah, you would go back...
The protocol was basically you go back and go to bed
because it's pretty late, but it was not unheard of
to go ahead and turn the light on and study after
silver taps. I think that was just kind of the
practical reality of it. What were the no-no's
after silver taps? Well, first the no-no was not to
go.
There was just no hell raising or anything, just a
very quiet, somber kind of thing. You go back and
Now, there might have been a light restriction,
which you could pull your shutters down or
something like that and study. I don't recall any
prohibition on that. All right. Then Muster.
Muster, of course, once a year. Held where? San
Jacinto Day, 21st of April. Held where? Muster was
held out in front of MSC, Memorial Student Center,
when I was there. I think that letter changed over
to G. Wally White. It would go to G. Wally White, I
believe, if it was raining, but I don't recall any.
It was. When I was there, muster was always held on
the campus out in front on the lawn of the Memorial
Student Center. And about what time of day? As I
recall, it was in the afternoon. Or it was the
daytime. It was not evening ceremony. And did that
seem to you to be an important tradition event? Oh,
certainly. Certainly. Yeah, we were fully
indoctrinated and inculcated on muster from the
time we hit the campus. All right. As you were
preparing, approaching graduation, What sort of
world did you think you were entering? Kind of
interesting. We had a big advantage then, and then
our futures for the next two years, six months to
two years, were already prescribed. That is, we
had to go to the military. Military was obligatory
at that time for all men. And so we had, of course,
had our contracts, and then we had our
commissions. So we would go in at different times.
The beauty of that is that it was a perfect
transition. certainly in a time of peace like we
were in at that time. Perfect transition from
college life to professional life. Gave you time
to see different parts of the world, to mature out,
to make new friends, to get integrated into men
from other universities, different parts of the
country. Most Aggies were pretty provincial when
we left A&M after our senior year, weren't world
travel. And this was a great maturing time, and it
was for me. Just had the time of my life when I was in
service. How well prepared did you think you were
for whatever future life there was? I had no
yardstick. I felt like, you know, when you're a
senior and you go through the Corps for four years
and you get out with an engineering degree, I felt
like I was prepared for anything. But there was
probably a tad of insecurity there when you get
right down to it. You've been in universities, so
you understand that. But when I got in the service
and I was integrated into people from MIT and
Lafayette and New York City College and some of the
Ivy League schools, I felt even more prepared
because I felt like we were probably matured out
and had as good an education and felt better than a
lot of my colleagues from other universities. I
really felt that way. Why did you major in
engineering? Interesting story. I'll make a long
story short. My dad was a farmer.
I come from about three generations of
agriculture up in Panhandle, Texas. And if you
remember the 1950s, the cattle market broke and
went through a severe drought. And I saw my dad
slowly go broke. My good friend at that time in high
school, his father was a consulting engineer. So I
just thought that was kind of a neat thing to do. I
had no idea what engineers did. I didn't have the
slightest idea. So I went to him and
said, Mr. Hazy, his name was H-A-S-I-E, Mr. Hazy,
I-A-L. I think I want to be a consulting engineer.
Tell me what to do. He said, I'll tell you what to do.
He said, you go to Texas A&M and get a civil
engineering degree. Then you go to the service and
get that behind you. And then come back to Fort
Worth and work for the Corps of Engineers and go
through the training program. You're going to
learn a lot about building dams and roads and
surveying and all of that. And then finish our
training program and come to work for me at
Lubbock. and come up through the ranks of my
consulting firm, which seemed like a great career
path. So he was my first mentor, and I did 100% of
that. Went to E&M, got my civil engineering
degree, went to the service, got that out of the
way, went to the Corps of Engineers in Fort Worth,
and got a great training program there, went to
work for him, then he passed away. So that
disrupted my timetable, and that's what sent me
back to graduate school. But he was my first
mentor, and that's kind of how I got in, made the
transition first in my family, since, or last, to
get out of agriculture and into a technical field.
Who were the people at A&M that helped shape your
life there? I may have addressed some of that
before in my earlier tape, but certainly I had some
great mentors. Doc Harrington was my hydraulics
professor who revered. He was just great. A fellow
named Dr. Nederman was my reinforced concrete.
Professor, he was... That's Wendell Nederman.
Wendell Nederman, outstanding, one of the best
professors I ever had. Certainly Spencer
Buchanan, soil mechanics. Those are the three
that I really revered. And, of course, in graduate
school, I had even more mentors. Graduate school
is a little bit different. In the College of
Engineering, I had some just absolutely
marvelous professors here at the University of
Texas in the 60s. So the foundation I had from those
three gentlemen that I just mentioned, plus two
professors in particular here at Texas, gave me
opportunities I would never have had had I not met
them. Were there some NM advisor, counselor, role
model people other than faculty who were
important to your future? MSC, core, anything
like that? Not really. The only one was the
director of MSC at that time. I think I may have
mentioned him too, Wayne Stark. Talk about him.
Wayne Stark was probably the only non-professor
mentor that I had, and I didn't flange in quite as
much with Wayne. He knew my older brother who had
gone to A&M. He knew my family, so he made it a point
to know me, as he did many students on the campus.
But I think he was probably more involved in
perpetuating students to go to Harvard Business
School who were in the business side of it, and not
necessarily just engineers. But he was a
one-in-a-million kind of guy. He built up the MSC.
He was a Mackville thinker, a deep thinker, and had
files on every student in the world. I'd go to him,
even when I became president of the Association of
Former Students, I'd go to Wayne and ask about some
student or former student, and he'd have a file on
them. He had copious files on his people that he
helped. Describe the Aggie bonfire in your
student days. It was controversial, believe it or
not. A lot of the professors who had come to A&M from
other universities thought it was a waste of time
and encroached on study time, but of course that
was not negotiable. We had one week for bonfire.
Everybody had to work on just bonfire week. We
started one week before. Everything we could do
was done in one week. It always rained. We had
cutting areas. It was great camaraderie. We tried
to get a little studying done during that week, but
it was very difficult to do. But Bonfire Week
was... Where was it built? It was built, I believe,
all four years when I was at A&M. It was built to
where it continued to be built for many, many years
thereafter, and that's behind Duncan Meshall
over by what's now the A&M Press. So that was our, it
used to be, before I got to A&M, I know it was on the
drill field, but then they moved it. And what was in
the bonfire? What was it that was burned up? What
was it made of? It was made of logs, mostly
hardwood. I guess all hardwood from Prattis
Bottoms. Farmers out there would be glad to have
you come out and clear some of their land. It was no
value with the timber on it. But no trash? Oh, no.
No, that went out many years ago. I think it was
strictly a log bonfire. I can remember certainly
since the 40s probably. And what was always on top
of it? The outhouse, of course, and an Austin City
Limits sign. And where did the outhouse come from?
You know, I'm not sure I can answer that. Various
places. I think they would construct them or they
would steal it or whatever. It was normally stolen
from some place. I've often wondered sometimes
was it just made just for that purpose? Probably
was. I don't have a recollection of that. If they
could find one, they'd steal it. If not, they'd
just make one. But the one thing they would steal in
violation of state law was the City of Austin City
Limits sign. I have to admit, I think as my junior
year, I helped perpetuate that crime. I think at
some point after I got out of school, they caught
some kids doing that. Again, you're stealing from
the state, so it's a fun thing to do, but it's
certainly illegal. Now, during your days, did
anybody kidnap a mascot from another school?
I don't believe that happened. It was very common.
Actually, after I left, it was probably more
common, and before I got there, it was common. When
I was there, I don't recall that ever happening.
Because it has happened and then not happened for a
while. Yeah. Let's see. How were
diversity of student body? How were Hispanic
students at A&M treated? The same as all of us.
About the only minority group we had there were
Hispanics. But most of the Hispanics came from the
border, from Laredo. I'm not talking about the
international Latin, ethnically Latin people.
I'm talking about the Hispanics, Mexican
Americans. No, they were absolutely no
different. And were there any Asian students in
the Corps, Asian American? Probably were, but you
could probably count them on one hand at that time.
Ironically, I remember one of the finest football
players in my dad's day was a Japanese American. So
they have a long history of going to A&M. Was that
Kishi? Kishi, yeah. From Orange County. I didn't
know that, but I remember looking at him and my dad
talking about him all the time. My dad was a class of
26. And one of the elder members of that family was
confined early in World War II because his hobby
was ham radio operating. No, I'd be darned. And
they thought, of course, he must be spying. Then
they found that...